#There is No Elegant way to Eat Seaweed

I thought I would be really into blogging about my experience in the Ascend Project, but at the end of the day, my brain feels too gushy to be coherent. I do get a second wind after I get home, but Dancer (whose human I am) is so mad at me for not being home that he colonizes my lap for the duration of the evening. That leaves me access to my tablet, but not my laptop.

In other news, I have met a bunch of people that I likely would not have met under any other circumstances. This has been nicely balanced by having a couple of people I already was acquainted with. And the icing on the cupcake is that I made a new friend that I fully expect to stay in touch with long after the project ends. Which, all in all, is not a bad first day. 

Another aspect that I am absolutely enjoying is my daily bike commute. It has been a good 16 years since I was a regular bike commuter and I am both pleased and surprised by how well it is going. I guess I shouldn't be surprised because the 430+ miles of walking before-hand meant that I was in pretty good physical shape. But, as I discovered my first day on my bike, bike muscles are not the same as walking muscles. Regardless, my bike muscles are building really quickly and I have not yet needed to stop on the ride home. Not that I don't appreciate the red lights or needing to wait until cars go by, but those are not driven by burning muscles or an inability to catch my breath. In fact, I suspect I am going to miss my bike when I resume walking this weekend. Which I see as a good thing. 