##I had troble understanding these directions:
To make the participant blogs work:

    Create a _posts directory in your individual participants directory.
    Create an index.html file in your individual participants directory.
    Paste this code in, with your first name as the category in the appropriate places.
    Every time you make a blog post, name it YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.markdown, and paste this at the top of your file, filling in the appropriate info:

---
layout: post
title:  "Title of Your Post"
date:   YEAR-MONTH-DAY
categories: your-participant-name
---

    If you want to be able to work with drafts and not publish your posts immediately, create a _drafts directory in your individual participants directory. When you are ready to publish, move the post to the _posts directory.

There is a link in the gist to the code for index.html
###This is what I learned, What I missed.
	1. make the directory on my personel computer. 
	2. push to my git hub account
	3. issue a pull request

	###Commands used in a terminal window:
	directory ascendproject/participants/portland/my name
		mkdir _posts
		cd to _posts
		touch index.html
		open index.html in sublime editor past this text including dashed lines.
		change your participant name to your name
		
---
layout: blogs
title: "Your Blog"
---
 
<div>
<ul class="posts">
{% for post in site.posts %}
{% for cat in post.categories %}
{% if cat == 'your-participant-name' %}
<h1><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></h1>
<span>{{ post.date | date_to_string }}</span> &raquo;
 
{{ post.content }}
<hr />
{% endif %}
{% endfor %}
{% endfor %}
</ul>
</div>

#########code over

save file

When you are finished your named directory should have a _posts directory with an index.html file and your posts with markdown .md file extension. 
Also have a _drafts directory. 

It is now clear to me on what to do. Let me know what else is needed to make it clearer to you.

I write recipes for publcation. It is tricky to get all the instructions clear for everyone. 