---
layout: post
title: "The End of the Road"
author: Yenni
date: 2014-10-16
categories: yenni
---

## The state of "what if" remains.

This entire experience has been a tremendous blessing. There's an eerie feeling associated with knowing that in a tangible time frame, you were a completely different person. Self awareness is a silly thing that only matters to you, and makes the whole world different. 

It's fun to think about how hesistant I was about believing that I would understand anything the computer said, and even more fun that I know how to say something back now. It's more of a command than talking. 

With all that I have learned, it doesn't feel like it's enough. I still want to know the stories of the folks in the open source community and their reasons for becoming citizens. I crave to dominate my own domain, and hope to encourage the next generation of contributors.

When asked, "what's next?" I don't know how to answer. When you feel like you conquered a whole new world, the internet, you know you can take on anything. Choosing a specific path, or passion, is most challenging. 

Looking back at my biggest passion, and through the encouragement I have received to pursue "what's possible" I hope to continue with a dream left behind. I was encouraged away from engineering school many years ago, and the reason for my enrollment was to create medical technology for trans men. I'm putting it out in the virtual world and will someday make a difference on a personal level to many.

Every day is a learning experience, some days more than others. Every day at Ascend allowed me to learn about myself, my new community, and the continuous evolvement of my abilities. 

I leave the program with a new found passion for myself and the community I was immersed in, and it makes me smile. 





