#So Many Tomatoes

Today I was up early so I could run to the store and get a flat of canning jars. Our neighbor, Mulysa bought 100 pounds of tomatoes and had another 40 pounds from her garden. I headed to her house and helped get everything set up. Once we had water boiling and jars sterilized I started peeling and coring. Others showed up about an hour later and that helped a lot. I helped with maybe 50 pounds or so and then had to leave to go look at a table with the guys.

I ran home and we headed to the Alphabet District and looked at a great crank table but it was much more expensive than I had anticipated so we will hold off. We were pretty hungry so we went to Slabtown for some vegan gyros and shawarma. The food was so good but the bar was totally a dive. I'd probably eat there again but get my food to go!

We also stopped by the Sprint store since my adorable nephew sat on my phone the day before and shattered the screen. Totally my fault for not putting it in a safer place. Andrew still had his franken-pre from many years ago and was long overdue for a new phone so we both ended up getting the Galaxy S5. He isn't thrilled with his but there is no current phone he really likes. I love mine but I've had the prior models so I am used to it. We also added a new line and got Natale his own phone. We had to change plans in order to do this but we will be paying about the same per month.

We headed back home and I went back to Mulysa's house to help finish the tomatoes but as luck would have it, they were all done! Back home I went and sat around trying to get my phone configured the way I liked. That seemed to take forever!

Our friend, Vicky, was in town house hunting. She took an awesome position with Simple and is moving here shortly. Wayne, Andrew, and I met her down at Green Dragon. The three of us had never been before so it was fun to try yet another new place in Portland for the second time in one day. Our mutual friend, Jason, was also in town for XOXO so it was nice to see him as well. The weather was once again amazing so we all sat outside on the patio and had a really nice evening talking about all sorts of stuff.

Today I learned that 140 pounds of tomatoes is a LOT more than I had imagined and I had imagined it was a lot.
